assembly and uh have a listen to Dr Ted
Ros
Gabriel Mr
President excellencies dear
colleagues thank you Mr President for
convening this
meeting on Tuesday of this week I met
for the second time with families of
Israeli hostages being held in
Gaza I heard and felt
their pain and
heartache who continues to call for
those hostages who are still alive to be
released without
condition we're deeply concerned for
their health and wellbeing just as we're
concerned for the health and well-being
of the people of Gaza which is becoming
more precarious every
hour so far this week w
has not received updates on the number
of deaths or injuries in
Gaza which makes it harder for us to
evaluate the functioning of the health
system what's clear is that the health
needs of the people of Gaza are growing
all the time and the health system is
near
collaps only 10 of gaza's 36 hospitals
are still functioning with just one ,400
hospital
beds many health workers have been
displaced forced to flee with their
families here is what that
means more and more casualties and fewer
and fewer beds health workers medicines
and
supplies premature babies dying as life
support systems shut down more than
2,000 patients with cancer 1,000 with
kidney disease 50,000 with
cardiovascular disease and 60,000 with
diabetes all at risk as their treatment
is
interrupted up to 200 women giving birth
every day in the worst imaginable
conditions an estimated 20,000 people
and counting in need of specialized
Mental Health
Services among this place po ations in
overcrowded shelters we're seeing
increasing numbers of respiratory and
skin
infections cases of acute watery
diarrhea as the SE system breaks down
and people are forced to defecate in the
open increasing
malnutrition I could go on and
on there are no words to describe the
horror the people of Gaza need our
support your support
now the best way to support Gaza health
workers and the people they serve is by
giving them the tools they need
medicines medical equipment clean water
food power and
protection field hospitals and Emergency
Medical Teams can complement and support
existing hospitals and health workers in
Gaza but they cannot replace
them supporting gas health workers is at
the heart of who's operational response
plan we need to rapidly resupply the
hospitals reconstitute the health
Workforce and ensure health services are
protected but frankly the amount of Aid
that has been allowed into Gaza so far
is fitful it's
pathetic and even the little Aid we can
get into Gaza cannot be distributed
without fuel it's as simple as
that no
fuel no
Aid the small amount of fuel that
entered this week has already run
out we welcome reports that an agreement
has been reached for increased supply of
fuel to Gaza we look forward to seeing
the details of those reports and to
their fulfillment
but it's not just fuel electricity is
also needed to power desalination plants
water and SEI treatment plants hospitals
and other essential
Services we welcome the security
council's adoption on Wednesday of a
resolution on urgent and extended
humanitarian poses and corridors in
Gaza it doesn't go far enough we need
AIS
but it's a
start we call for the immediate
implementation of the resolution and we
call on all parties to abide by
it most of all we need attacks on Health
Care to
stop the Geneva conventions were adopted
and ratified to establish what's
acceptable and what is not in
Conflict violating the neutrality of of
healthare is not
acceptable attacks on Health Care must
stop but so far wh has verified
152 attacks on healthc care in Gaza 170
in the West Bank and 33 in Israel
attacks on hospitals clinics ambulances
health workers and
Patients alifa Hospital must be enabled
to function as a hospital
there are reportedly up to 300 health
workers and 650 patients inside the
hospital even if hamus has used the
hospital for military
purposes the hospital and indeed all
health care facilities are never without
protection under humanitarian
law furthermore the proposal for a
so-called safe Zone at Alma
is a recipe for
disaster attempting to cram so many
people into such a small area with such
little infrastructure or services will
significantly increase risks to help for
people who are already on the
brink who will not participate in the
establishment of any so-called safe Zone
in Gaza without broad agreement and
unless fundamental conditions are in
place to ensure safety and other
essential needs are met and the
mechanism is in place to supervise its
implementation as Martin Griffith had
already said
earlier let me be
clear the attacks by Hamas and other
armed groups on Israel the killing of
1,200 people and The Taking of more than
200 hostages were totally unjustifiable
but with at least
11,500 gazin
killed 70% of the women and children
with 1.7 million people
displaced with two3 of Gaza hospitals
out of action with no
electricity no fuel no clean water no
food with every bomb that kills or Mims
a child with every family buried beneath
the rubel of its own
home the scale of Israel's response
appears increasingly
unjustifiable wh like the rest of the
United Nations system is
impartial we're not on one side or the
other we are on the side of humanity
Mr
President
excellencies we are witnessing the
destruction of life and property on a
horrific
scale but we are also witnessing the
destruction of
Civility the rules based system and
trust between
countries this
crisis is an acid test for the United
Nations and for you its member
states this organization was established
to Foster peace in our
world if you as member states of the
United
Nations will not or cannot stop this
Bloodshed then we must ask
what is the United Nations
for the crisis in Gaza is a crisis for
the
UN and a crisis for
Humanity talk is not
enough resolutions are not
enough statements are not
enough
you must
act and you must act
now we call on you to ensure unfettered
access to deliver humanitarian Aid to
the civilians of
Gaza we call on Hamas to release the
hostages we call on Israel to restore
supplies of water electricity and
fuel we call on both decides to abide by
their obligations under International
humanitarian
law we call for attacks on healthc care
to stop and for Patients health
facilities Health infrastructure and
health workers as well as Aid workers to
be
protected and we continue to call for an
end to this conflict to prevent further
deaths of civilians and further damage
to gaza's hospitals and health
facilities Mr President thank you once
again for inviting me and back to
you pretty powerful statement there from
Dr Tedros gabrius director general of
the World Health